docs(FileManager): Improve data binding information and add KB for data virtualization (#3049)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/filemanager/data-binding/overview.md

position: 0
---

# FileManager Data Binding Overview

This FileManager Data Binding section explains the different ways to provide data to a FileManager component and the properties related to data binding. This article describes what are the available (bindable) features of FileManager data items and how to map model properties to these features.

There are two data binding modes that the FileManager supports:

* [Flat data](slug:filemanager-data-binding-flat-data)&mdash;a collection of self-referencing items with parent-child relationships.
* [Hierarchical data](slug:filemanager-data-binding-hierarchical-data)&mdash;each item holds its children in a nested property.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#valuebind-vs-databind-link)

## FileManager Item Features

> The FileManager has features that map to properties in the model. The following flat data model uses property names that will work automatically, with no additional FileManager configuration:

Author: ```suggestion
The FileManager extracts information about the displayed files and folders from properties in the model. The following flat data model uses property names that will work automatically, with no additional FileManager configuration:
```

}
````

The following section describe the meaning of the model properties for the FileManager.

## Data Bindings

All [FileManager item features](#fileManager-item-features) map to model properties. You define that relationship by providing the property name from which the corresponding information is taken. To do this, use the following parameters of the main `TelerikFileManager` tag:

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| FileManager Parameter | Default&nbsp;Parameter&nbsp;Value <br /> (Model Property Name) | Model Property Type | Model Value Description | 
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Item features** | | | |
| `NameField`| `"Name"` | `string` | The name of the file or folder, excluding the extension. |
| `SizeField`| `"Size"` | `long` | The size of the  file in bytes. |
| `PathField`| `"Path"` | `string` | The path to the item, including the name and extension. |
| `ExtensionField`| `"Extension"` | `string` | The item extension, starting with a dot `.` |

> | `IsDirectoryField`| `"IsDirectoryField"` | `bool` | Whether the item is a folder. If `false`, it's treated as a file. |

Author: Right, should be `IsDirectory`

| `DateCreatedField`| `"DateCreated"` | `DateTime` | The creation date of the file. |

> | `DateCreateUtcField`| `"DateCreateUtc"` | `DateTime` | The creation date of the file in UTC. Required. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `DateCreatedUtcField`| `"DateCreatedUtc"` | `DateTime` | The creation date of the file in UTC. Required. |
```
